- Hello, welcome everybody on the live stream.
We've got two guests today, so it's pretty exciting.
So let's just jump into it.
Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines
directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 285, recorded May 24th.
And I'm Brian Okken.
- I am Michael Kennedy.
- And I'm Mark Little.
- I'm Ben Cosby.
- Nice, welcome Ben, welcome Mark.
So Michael, you have this story why you brought Mark and Ben on.
I did bring Mark and Ben on. Mark and I have been really good friends for a long time,
but that's not why he's here. He's here because he's been sharing this Python journey that he and Ben have both been on.
They come from law, like being lawyers and bankers and stuff, and they've found their way over to writing software in Python.
It's been so fun to watch you guys come along.
And you recently showed me the release
of one of your SaaS products built with Python
and Pyramid and other things.
And I thought it was just super cool.
So I thought you could maybe share just a little bit
of that before we kick off the main topics
to kind of inspire people who are not, you know,
traditional CS folks,
and they can still build amazing things.
You want to tell us both a bit about yourself
and then tell us a bit about your thing?
- I'll say first that I'm strictly the hobbyist.
So it's definitely been a collaboration and quite a journey.
And I'll talk a little bit about how we got started
'cause you played an instrumental role in that, Michael.
But so we released this product called X-Chart
that builds corporate organizational structures
automatically.
And these charts are kind of weird.
They're sort of like human resources organizational charts
except that for legal entities, they're much more complicated.
And so we've built some automation in Python,
principally in the server side,
that generates these hierarchies automatically,
and they can be quite elaborate.
So for example, some of that we release publicly,
and we've been building these things with our own app
and releasing them.
So here's one for Elon Musk, for example,
this is before the early stages of his Twitter acquisition,
but our app does a lot of this layering automatically.
And those things can be quite stunningly complicated.
So here's one, for example, with thousands of legal entities
in the corporate structure of Blackstone.
And so we've actually got some Python
that sort of automates the presentation
and structure of all that.
And then, as you say, it's using Pyramid and Chameleon
and SQLAlchemy, and then a lot of legal
and business finance expertise as well.
But it's been quite an exciting journey.
And so we were excited to share this with you
and look forward to sort of talking about some
of the piece parts that are in the product
that might be useful to the broader community as well.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
Some of the stuff you guys are gonna cover today
as our main topic sort of were extracted
out of the building of the SRA.
- Yeah.
- All right, Ben, anything you wanna add to that
and maybe just tell people about yourself real quick?
- Sure, yeah.
No, well, as you pointed out and Mark too,
whenever I'm trying to explain to somebody what I do now,
I always say, well, I'm a reformed barbarian at the gate.
And I traded buyouts and IPOs and a suit on Wall Street
for code and in my office at home
and in my pajamas kind of thing.
But as Mark talked about,
we've kind of merged those couple of things together.
And so these days I spend a lot of my time
with Python on the front end and JavaScript,
JavaScript on the front end and Python on the back end, and DevOps and all sorts of things,
you know, we sort of have to do it all here. But I also wanted to say kind of as part of
our journey for your listeners, I'd be remiss if I didn't, even though I didn't warn you beforehand,
I was going to do this, but along this way of kind of going from suits and deals and IPOs and
and things like that, Michael's Talk Python Training
for I'm sure lots of people on this podcast are familiar,
but if you're not, those courses were pretty instrumental
for us and for those we've worked with in evolving
and making Python.
Python now is completely central to our business
and what we do.
So it's been fun to get here.
- Thanks for the shout out, man.
- And I would say we've been able to leverage that.
- I appreciate it.
- Yeah, I would just say too,
we've been able to leverage that
And we've got some pretty complex math and graph theory
in the core of our app.
So we've been able to take Michael's classes
and really sort of leverage them in a much bigger way
than I think a lot of people expect or imagine they can
when they start some of these online classes.
So your training in particular has been exceptional.
- Thanks, Mark.
I just think what you guys have built
looks so much more polished than some of the other,
couple of guys who taught themself programming
a few years ago and I just, I love it.
So super good work.
Brian, should we, should we kick it off?
Yeah, this is just great.
I'm I'm, I'm blown away.
It looks awesome.
So yeah, let's kick it off.
Yeah, I was too.
And I think some of the stuff that we're going to talk about is going
to, certainly be part of that.
So let's talk.
Oh, yeah, nope.
Wrong one.
Ah, I'm up next.
Right, Brian.
Yeah.
Sorry.
All right.
I have, I have a whole bunch of extras folks.
So let me just start a quick one for one of our main topics
here that maybe--
We may have to cut you off.
You might have to cut me off.
So check this out, Brian.
If I go over to pypi.org, and I go look for something like--
let me look at Beanie.
I don't know if I get that right.
Actually, I don't think that's going to help.
Let me look for switch lang, which
is my switch implementation I added to Python,
I don't know, a couple years ago.
So if you look over here on the left--
oh, I think it's being blocked.
here, there it says, here's your avatar from Gravatar for M. Kennedy. But my little browser
settings are blocking that or whatever. But so this is a thing you see a lot of the times
and like where do you get where do you get these little Gravatar? So if you have users,
you have users who have emails, you want to show something about them, there's a chance
that over in Gravatar,
there's going to be some profile for them,
different images, things like that.
So if you're in Python
and you want to add Gravatar features to your site,
it is ridiculous using this thing called libGravatar.
So all you got to do with libGravatar
is you go and you create an instance
of one of these objects, Gravatars,
You pass in an email and you can say, get image,
you give it a size and potentially a file extension
if you want to control that or anything,
or whether or not you wanna use SSL.
And then it gives you back this non-reversible URL
that is the image of that person based on the size
that you asked for, who they are and so on.
And if they don't exist, you get the standard Gravatar logo,
just like a little circle type thing.
And so this is some kind of hash algorithm
you have to follow based on their email address
to pull them back and so on.
But if you wanna add that kind of Gravatar look and feel,
then like literally Gravatar object,
give it the email address dot get image.
And that's pretty neat.
It goes from one to 248 pixels on the image size.
So I'm not sure one's super useful,
like you get one dot,
but maybe you want it to be kind of like a particular,
like a shade of the person is all you're gonna get, I guess.
- Even like a five by five would be fun,
just a few pixels.
- So you can do a get profile,
which will then give you access to the user
and see all of their email addresses,
all of their information about them and so on.
So there's a little bit of (indistinct)
Oh yeah, yeah, there's a whole shadow profile
that's built up by like surveillance ad tech industry.
It's only five bucks a use, no, just kidding.
But you can get like more details about them
through their profile if you really want.
But basically the main use case is given an email,
Can I get a picture without hassling this person
to upload a picture?
Maybe.
- And just, if anybody's not familiar with Gravatar,
it's owned by Automatic who does WordPress.
So all the WordPress people use it
and that's why it's like well supported
and it's not too evil or anything like that.
- Yeah, and like I said, pypi.org uses it.
So that's, that's a start.
Mark, Ben, what do you guys think?
Do you have user pictures in your app?
Are you worried about this kind of stuff?
- We don't.
We don't in LexChart, but it's funny because we,
at the very beginning of our journey,
we implemented a little question and answer app
as like a demo to make sure that, you know,
we could like justify going down to Python.
And I used Gravatar in there.
This actually is a pretty cool library
because I remember in that app,
I really was just focused on Python,
but I had to fall back on some JavaScript
in order to put the Gravatar icons in there.
But it is a great, Gravatar is really useful.
I'd encourage your listeners,
if you're looking for something.
'Cause the nice thing, as you said,
is it'll just generate like this automatic little drawing,
even if they don't have an image.
So you can kind of create a nice look and feel
for your site, for your user profiles,
where everybody gets some sort of a graphic,
even if they haven't uploaded anything.
It's kind of a nice little tool.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Kim Van Wick out in the audience said,
one pixel Gravitars might be useful for building images,
like displaying contributors and stuff.
Maybe not one, but you could do like 10 by 10
And then you could build up to a montage of all the people
or something that'd be cool.
Ben, you also have some cheering folks in the audience,
which is lovely.
So go, Ben.
Good to have you here.
All right.
Brian, over to you.
I'm very excited about--
when I first saw this, I'm like, oh, you don't really need that.
Pydantic does this on--
oh, wait, no, this is amazing.
Tell me to tell you.
So this is so cool.
It's a little thing that was suggested by Chun Li.
It's a JSON to Pydantic converter.
And Chun said, "This awesome JSON to Pydantic is so useful.
"It literally saves me days of work
"with complex nested JSON schema."
So the idea is you've got,
basically it's just this website with like,
JSON side and a Pydantic side.
And I've got one prepared.
I went and copied one from somewhere.
And so if we go over and just replace the simple one
with like a more complex one, paste it in there,
and then it just generates the Pydantic model
and it's pretty awesome.
There's a couple of options you can give it.
- So for people who are listening,
it's not that it converts JSON to Pydantic,
it converts JSON to Pydantic code.
- Yeah.
- It writes the code that you would have to write
for the Pydantic to understand what you put.
It's amazing, I love it.
- Right, and then some of the options are cool.
You might not use it for everything,
but just knowing the syntax for it.
So if you drop a, give them optional,
it'll tell you where to put optional in your model
to make it all work right.
And it's like, this one's only just showing up
at the bottom, so anyway.
And then the last one is aliasing camel case.
I didn't know you could do this.
Aliasing camel case for snake case.
So if you're using, I guess,
both camel case and snake case,
you can have a more, I don't know what this is really.
- A lot of times if you're consuming a JSON API
that's written in another language,
the variable names are idiomatic to that language.
So like C# would be, or JavaScript would represent this one
where you've got like the camel casing,
but that would not be how you would wanna call it in Python.
So you can say, well, give me the Python version,
but allow Pythonic to find the other size.
- Okay, cool.
One of the neat things about this that I really love
is it's an open source project.
So at the bottom, there's a link.
It takes you to the, just the open source page.
And this is built with FastAPI and create React app,
which is pretty cool.
And then a data model code generator.
So it's like, that's doing the most of the work.
So if you want to do this yourself somewhere else,
like, you know, embed it within your tool chain
or something like that, you can do this.
So I don't know why you'd regenerate it all the time though,
but it's just super kind of fun to just drop,
drop some Jason,
a Jason example of a good one in there and drop it in.
- It's fantastic.
If you're going to consume an API and you say,
here's a specification of what I'm going to get back.
Boom, you're halfway there or you're a consultant.
You pick up somebody else's code and you're like,
I want to use Pythonic here.
This is great.
Anthony, the artist says, oh, come on.
I could have used this last week.
(laughing)
- Guys, what do you think of this?
- That's really cool.
We have a project where we're looking at migrating
from a different tech stack to Python
and one of our output sources there is JSON.
So I'm looking at this and wondering,
Ben, this might be an opportunity for us
to get there a little quicker for some of that data.
- That is cool, especially for prototyping
or something where you just wanna see
and you wanna spend three days seeing
what it's gonna look like, this is pretty cool.
- Yeah, it's very cool.
- Also another, I mean, we get this all the time,
but I just wanna remind people,
this was a suggestion from a listener.
And that's one of the neat things about the podcast
is people can find cool things and send them in
and then we can share it with everybody, it's nice.
- Absolutely.
That's like half of our topics are that, right?
All right, Mark, you're up with the next one.
- Awesome, so this is not a Python library
and it's probably well known to most of your listeners,
but I wanted to just talk about a few Tailwind CSS things
that people, if you're only sort of casually aware
of Tailwind, might help you jumpstart.
We are an aggressive user of Tailwind
and some of the components.
The other piece I wanna talk about is Tailwind UI,
which is not open source.
So Tailwind CSS is completely free from Tailwind Labs.
But Tailwind UI is behind a paywall.
But these are pre-built components
by the creators of Tailwind.
So there are lots of people building components for Tailwind.
But Tailwind UI is specifically built
by the people who created Tailwind in the first instance.
And it's interesting to me--
I know that both of you have a lot of interest
in user interface design around Python and web apps
and Tailwind certainly is a part of that theme.
And it's also interesting for the business model piece
about how to turn sort of open source
into sort of a revenue generating model.
So you can use Tailwind and never need Tailwind UI,
but if you need examples or references,
Tailwind UI is a fantastic resource.
And so I thought I would just show,
they've got widgets, basically prebuilt components
around marketing or app UIs,
and then a new sort of e-commerce section.
And to give you an example,
there's really low level granular stuff.
Like if you want a little stats component,
you can come in here, they'll show you what it looks like.
They've designed several options.
You can see what they are like responsively,
and then you can actually see the code
and they'll give you the code in raw HTML, React or Vue.
And some of them need JavaScript as well.
They'll give you hints around what to do
with the JavaScript if that's necessary.
But this is an example of that little stats widget
with all of the sort of Tailwind classes built in there
that you can grab and reuse.
And we have found it really useful
for creating this sort of really professional
sort of user interface experience.
And our app, so for example,
if I just quickly create one,
like our toolbar here is a couple of chameleon templates
with Tailwind running around each of these buttons
to keep them consistent, which also means
that at different resolutions, the buttons will look different.
So if I'm on a larger screen, there
will actually be help text underneath each
of these buttons.
They get smaller.
All that's done really nicely in Tailwind.
And then because it's a Chameleon template running
in our Python stack, we can use those toolbars
in a variety of circumstances and have
really granular, nice, intuitive control of them.
So between Tailwind CSS and Tailwind UI,
these are sort of great resources to get familiar
and up and running with it.
There have been a few people grumbling--
- Mark, this is so nice.
I just to give people a sense of like some of the size
of the building blocks is,
we've all gone to the websites where you click pricing,
for example, and it's got like three columns
and one's a little bigger and it says,
this is the most common or whatever.
Like that is just a drop in element.
- Yes, this is the price you want.
- And it's styled to be so beautiful, right?
- Yeah, and this is the best thing about Tailwind
from my perspective is it's built principally
by Adam Wathen and Steve Schroeger.
And Adam, I'm probably grossly oversimplifying this,
would be the technical component of this,
and Steve is the design element.
And they have some great resources.
If you just, Steve Schroeger has some wonderful videos
where he sort of recomposes user interfaces
and he's got a book out on refactoring UI
that I think you can add to the show notes.
But you're basically standing on the shoulders of these giants.
These are fantastic design principles.
Yes, I'm sure there are people that are better than me
at doing this.
But I know that Steve and Adam have done a fantastic job
in using these components.
Even if I need to tweak them, I learn a lot.
There are a lot of comments that people
will learn a lot about CSS just watching them work and seeing
how these components are built. Tailwind automatically
handles lots of cool edge cases.
And you see that when you look at these components.
And everything is built to be responsive from the beginning,
and they're just lovely to work with.
It's also super fast, so there are a bunch of components.
Their latest release has made their just-in-time compiler
native, so it's built in.
It does generate a lot of CSS, but it will only
do that if you're actually using certain classes or components.
And so it's just been fantastic to work with.
I will also say we use this in a recent project.
You can actually drop Tailwind into an existing project
and avoid conflicts with existing CSS.
There's a way to have a custom prefix
on all the Tailwind classes.
And both PyCharm and VS Code,
their Tailwind plugins will adapt to that prefixing.
So for example, instead of it,
if you need padding, you just append or prepend TW-
to the classes, to the Tailwind classes,
and VS Code and PyCharm will pick up that prefix.
They'll still give you all the helps and prompts
for Tailwind, and you'll avoid all the conflicts
with your existing CSS.
- Yeah, it's amazing.
- And then finally, I'd say it's just,
it's great with template languages.
So whether it's Chameleon or Jinja or Mako,
it's really nice because you're just looking
at that little bit of HTML in those templates,
and you can just put the classes right there in the HTML
and have a high confidence
of what that's gonna look like.
- Brian, have you played with this any?
- No, but one of the things I was having a,
I did a little consult with somebody
trying to get a startup off the ground.
And I was looking at their site and I was like,
man, your site looks awesome.
Did you hire somebody?
And they said, no, I'd use Tailwind UI.
And actually, so that's the thing,
the sweet spot I think,
is somebody that like maybe took
the Michael's entrepreneurial course or something,
just like one or two people
that are trying to get a business off the ground,
you don't have any money, you can't hire somebody,
or maybe you do, but often you don't.
So having that-- - Or it might just be
too early to worry about that, right?
- Yeah, so starting off the ground
with a professional looking site,
I think that's a great way to start.
So, and yes, it's free, but it's also not out of the realm
of a small startup.
- Yeah, I would add, we've used a lot of frameworks.
We've used Bootstrap, of course, Semantic.
We've used a lot of these things.
And what Tailwind is nice, particularly Tailwind UI,
Tailwind in general, but Tailwind UI as well,
is they will give you full page references.
So if I scroll down here, you'll see, for example,
there's this page example.
So if you need a landing page,
they will show you what an entire landing page looks like,
but you don't have to take the entire page.
If you want to assemble these components individually
into your own page structure, you can certainly do that.
So, you know, here's a feature section.
It doesn't include any of the other stuff,
but these are, if you like this feature presentation,
you can go grab just this bit and mix and match it.
So unlike a lot of the theme kind of frameworks
where you have this entire theme
just sort of stomps all over your design,
you can actually get a custom looking output
with Tailwind that's still consistent.
So it's a nice balance between, you know,
pretty modular granular control,
but still a consistent look of the entire app or website.
- And I have no doubt that like the stuff behind it,
like how much CSS is there, the size,
it's probably gonna be a heavier site
than having somebody custom write all this stuff,
but it's also gonna be cheaper, so.
Yeah, and that is true.
What they have done, they have a just-in-time compiler
that really minimizes the amount of CSS they produce.
And then, of course, you can do--
they recommend using post-CSS and a number of other things
like CSS Nano to reduce the size of those files.
We still get very high performance.
So keep in mind, our app is built entirely with Tailwind.
Plus, we're doing a lot of math on the server side.
And we get very small sub-second returns on our pages
as a result, even with all that stuff.
- Yeah. - Oh no.
- That's cool.
You've definitely inspired me, Mark,
to think about rewriting a lot of what I've been doing
in Tailwind, and it'll get there.
I'm just not there yet.
Got other stuff to work on first.
All right, before we move on, Brian,
can I take a moment and tell you all about our sponsor?
- Yes.
- Yeah, so this week, the show is brought to you
by Compiler, the Compiler podcast from Red Hat.
Just like everyone on the show and everyone listening, Brian and I are fans of podcasts.
And I'm super happy to share Compiler with you.
It comes to you from Red Hat, a well-respected open source company we all know of, I'm sure.
So with more and more of us working from home, it's important to keep our human connection with technology.
And Compiler unravels industry topics and trends, things you've always wanted to know about in tech,
all the way up to interviews with people who know it best.
So on Compiler, you'll hear a course of perspectives
from diverse communities behind the code.
Conversations include questions like,
what is technical debt?
Or what are tech managers actually looking for?
And do you have to know how to code to get an open source?
I was actually a guest on Red Hat's previous podcast,
Command Line Heroes, and Compiler is following along
in that same tradition of being an excellent,
produced, and polished show.
So actually the show that they just released,
When Should Data Die?
I think is one of those cool sort of philosophical questions
of should data have a lifetime?
Should your data be able to outlive you?
All those kinds of things are pretty interesting.
So I recommend people check it out.
Just visit pythonbytes.fm/compiler.
The link is in your podcast show notes.
I know we're all smart developers who are listening.
You can just search for compiler in your podcast player,
but please sign up by clicking that link
and then clicking your podcast player.
It'll help them know it came from us.
So thank you to Red Hat and Compiler
for supporting the show.
All right, I guess I'm still up, huh, Brian?
So let's talk peps.
This PEP is pretty interesting.
This comes to us from Ijmar.
It's by Jermaine Bravo and Karl Mayer,
sponsored by Barry Warsaw.
And it's something, honestly, I'm
I'm surprised it hasn't been covered or addressed yet.
I think this comes out of Meta's Cinder project,
where they're trying to do a whole bunch
of performance improvements, but I'm not 100% sure.
So take that with a grain of salt.
Basically, the idea is right now what happens
when I write some Python code, I'll write at the top,
import requests, import Beanie, import FastAPI.
What happens when I import Beanie?
Well, inside Beanie, it says import motor,
import, Pydantic, what happens inside motor?
It says import-- there's just this transitive closure
of at the top of all of these projects, each one of them
is importing something and parsing and compiling
the Python code as in abstract syntax trees into memory
and stuff like that.
All of that happens when I write one import line, right?
That's a lot.
But what if there's different paths in my code
and only some of the time maybe I'm using Pydantic
or only later in the app am I actually using FastAPI,
but not right away.
And sometimes you might not use them at all, right?
I could do a bunch of data science imports,
but only if a certain function runs do I care.
So this pep, this pep-9-690 says,
well, let's not do that.
Let's not preload every possible path that you might run
when you're gonna use a library.
Let's wait until you use it.
So that import FastAPI kind of just hangs there
until I say FastAPI dot.
And soon as the first line of code runs there,
then the import happens.
So you don't have this transitive closure
of all these imports if you're not actually gonna use them.
So it helps with startup time
and it also maybe helps with overall performance
if not every bit of code runs.
- I want this.
(laughing)
- Me too.
- It looks cool, right?
- One of the things that--
- You can spend a lot of time at startup
just because of all the import statements.
- Yeah, one of the things that I face a lot
with helping people is with pytest.
So pytest imports your code.
So it does, when it's, well, it imports your tests
and then the tests, it'll import your code to run your code.
But if you're running, if you're gonna like,
for instance, Ray, stop on the first failure,
you're not gonna hit a whole bunch of that code.
And so avoiding those and getting to start earlier,
it would help that.
And that's just one example of startup time being helped.
Now, I'm curious about how it helped,
if it'll affect runtime early on, otherwise,
app host startup.
- There's some conversations about compatibility.
So what could happen is there could be side effects
that happen because of the import.
You're not supposed to make changes to the system,
but that's arbitrary code writing
during your import statement.
So it could have an effect.
So theoretically, this could change things.
And they refer to the not the lazy ones as eager imports.
But they do talk about how some of these--
you'll have to pass a runtime flag to the Python interpreter
or set an environment variable for this to happen by default.
it won't happen by default, it's off by default.
So for better or worse, maybe someday that'll change,
but right now.
- That's pretty cool, I like it.
- Yeah.
Yep, indeed.
Ben, Mark, you guys have thoughts on this?
- Yeah, I agree.
I think this is really interesting
from the front end world where I spend a lot of time too.
I mean, there's a billion analogs for this.
We do all kinds of jumping through hoops from the old days,
code splitting in the old days,
and all kinds of webpack and a million other rollup
and all sorts of ways of trying to take advantage of this
on the client side because of the browser.
But I can actually imagine a lot of situations
using Python where what in one app,
maybe it is just limited to that moment of startup,
but I can imagine a lot of situations
where the way that your app or your service is being used
is causing that initial run event
to be an experience that the user is having
on a more frequent basis based on what you're doing
or what you've constructed.
And so that's actually really cool.
And I haven't thought much about this,
but I kind of agree with you.
Sort of surprised now that I see it that this hasn't been--
>>It should have always done that.
>>--a conversation before.
>>Yeah, absolutely.
And I also wonder if it allows you
to have code that can be less,
have more optional dependencies installed.
So like, for example, I think it was a FastAPI.
There's some support for forum stuff you have to install
as a separate pip dependency.
And here you could just write that code
and unless you actually run it,
it doesn't matter if you have import that thing
that's missing because not until does it try to use it,
is it gonna be a problem.
So it might allow you to write simpler code.
Let's see, out in the audience, Eddie Bergman says,
I feel like with it opt-in, many people won't know to use it,
but making it opt-out could break so many systems
depending on the behavior.
So yeah, I don't know what the right choice is,
so I guess the safe one is to just opt-out,
or to make people opt-in.
Yeah.
And Beanie, the author of--
sorry, Roman Wright, the author of Beanie,
gives it definitely a thumbs up for this idea as well.
So good support for some framework authors there
as well.
All right, Brian, what do you got for your last one here?
Hope it's something rich for us.
- Well, I've got a couple of things that,
a couple of these are small,
so it's sort of a multi-grab bag.
pytest Rich, so this is a plugin for pytest that uses Rich.
Not much more to say other than it's kind of cool
to use Rich to have some nice output.
This was done by Bruno Oliveira,
who is, he's one of the core people on pytest,
And also the only other person on the planet that I know of
that has written a book focused on pytest, but cool guy.
He said this is a proof of concept
and he'd love for somebody else to take it over,
but it doesn't look like it's like dead or anything.
It's got some activity.
So anyway, I think this is fun.
So cool opportunity for people to jump in if they want to.
- Thanks.
Question from the audience, Ryan,
How's it compared to pytest Sugar?
- I haven't used Sugar for a really long time,
but you can look at the image.
So it looks like similar to Sugar,
but Sugar doesn't have these cool rich tracebacks in it.
So there's that.
- Yeah, indeed.
- So the next thing I wanted to talk about
before we move on to somebody else
is a short little thing.
This was a recommended by,
actually the pytest Rich was recommended
by Brian Skin, thanks Brian.
And then this is recommended by Henrik Finsberg
is a video by Anthony Sotili
on how to get images in readmes.
And I guess I didn't know how to do this.
We encourage, and I wanted to bring this up
'cause we encourage everybody to put pictures
and animated GIFs and all that sort of stuff
in your readme so that when we re-review stuff
we can see what it does.
It helps, but it's not hard.
So Anthony goes through this whole thing of like,
you don't have to put the image in your repo.
You just have to drop it into a comment field
or in a repo edit field.
And then GitHub will just put it on a CDN somewhere.
So the image is just there.
So some magic there.
- You kind of trick GitHub into uploading it
and then not actually.
- Well, I mean, since the readme supports it,
it's interesting.
Anthony talks about using a comment field of your issues
to drop a picture in and then you get the URL from that.
But if you just go into your readme within GitHub
on the web interface and edit there,
you can also drop it there and it just works fine.
I guess maybe he's thinking that you're probably
not gonna edit your readme directly,
you'll probably edit it locally and push it in.
You can still do that.
But anyway, just neat.
That's cool.
Very nice.
Yeah, people should definitely have pictures and explanations
and charts and all that sort of stuff in their readme.
So that's great.
I would just add more generally, docs and tutorials
can be a strategic asset when done well.
Tailwind does this amazingly well.
EdgeDB does it really well.
DigitalOcean is off the chart in the comprehensiveness
and thoroughness of there.
And those things become an asset for the business.
of an annoyance that you have to do,
that the docs actually become valuable
for the project or the business.
- Yeah, do you want to be there
or do you regret that you have to go there, right?
- Right, exactly.
- All right, Ben, you want to take us out of here
with your final main topic?
- Yeah, so as you mentioned,
part of our latest project,
LexChart that Mark's talked a little bit about,
one of the things that we had to do,
despite the fact that as we were getting close to it,
I realized you can use LexChart for a lot of things
that maybe we didn't think about
when my 12 year old daughter sent me,
I spun her up an account so she could tinker with it
so I could kind of get an interesting test case
out of somebody that has like no connection
to what we're doing.
And she sent me a little organization chart
of Encanto characters and their family tree
from the movie Encanto, which I wasn't expecting,
but she's not really our typical user.
And with our target audience,
who looks a lot like I did in my former life,
security is a big, big deal with our clients.
And so one of the things we obviously had to look at is,
we need to implement some multi-factor authentication.
And initially my knee-jerk reaction to that was,
okay, yeah, we'll just do what everybody does
and we'll set it up and you'll get an SMS message
on your phone and all that kind of stuff.
But as I looked at that more and thought about
some of the conversations we'd had with clients
of some of our other software,
I wondered how long is that really gonna last?
Because there's a number of kind of real security issues
with SMS, not least of which is just the way
voice networks are built.
everything's sent in clear text,
it's actually really not that hard to, you know.
- It works, but people do look down upon it a little bit.
They're like, "Ah, this is not quite real security.
This is better than nothing but," right?
- Yeah, exactly, right?
And it's not to say, you know, you're making a point.
It's everywhere, everyone's using it.
And, you know, by the way, yeah, absolutely.
You know, password plus MFA, even with SMS is great.
is so much better than password only
from a security standpoint.
So it's not a knock on it.
I just thought, well, maybe we need to step one more step
forward here and see if there's some other things.
And so I was looking for a library that could help us
with one-time password stuff, and specifically one
that could help us with time-based
one-time password implementations,
which is something that I think Google really ultimately
started this way back.
And that's why a lot of people associate this
with the Google Authenticator app.
But there's actually a lot of authenticators.
It's an open standard.
And it really is closely connected to what's happening
when you do it with SMS or with email.
Both of those are similar in that,
both of these approaches,
they just lean on a moving factor.
So in the case of your SMS,
that moving factor is just usually like a counter
in the database, right?
You're just kind of clicking forward and whatever.
And that's along with all the other secret sauce
is generating these temporary codes, if you will.
In time-based, the moving factor is time.
And so what that allows you to do is
have an authenticator app
where you don't actually have to communicate
with that at all, but based on a shared secret,
again, same as how you do with SMS,
you're able to sync up these passwords
and then they have like kind of a,
they sort of explode, if you will, right?
so they last for like 30 seconds and all that kind of thing.
>> The library you're highlighting here is PyOTP,
which I guess lets you do this really easy in Python.
>> It does. Yeah, it makes it really, really straightforward.
I've in the notes,
people will be able to see I put a couple of
representative functions that you could use to do this,
but it's very small amount of code.
Basically, you generate a secret,
you store it with your user credentials.
Then when you're actually verifying somebody,
they come in, you have the shared secret in there,
they pull up their little authenticator app on their phone.
I think most people know what this looks like,
but we'll do this there.
That's the Google Authenticator app.
and so it gives you a little code and you can see it ticking down and all that kind of stuff.
And so instead of getting your SMS, you just pull up your code, you hit your app, you type it in, and then your users are voting that,
and then you're just running that through the verifier and based on this share secret, it says, "Yep, you're the real guy, great,"
and every 30 seconds those go away. So even if somebody, you know, just looked at mine for my Google Authenticator,
you know, you got, you know, 30 seconds to figure out my password.
- Exactly. - See if you can get into that test account
that I'm showing you that for.
But yeah, it's super, super simple to implement.
The only thing, you know, for the Python crowd here is that it is helpful
from a setup standpoint to do a little bit of front-end work because the easiest way
for users to set this up is to scan a QR code.
And so we have that implement on the front end
where you can see that QR code and scan it from a setup.
But those little functions I put in the show notes,
you just spin up a little URI,
that you can put that into any kind of QR code generator,
including Python based generators.
If you actually wanna do that,
store the image on the server and then serve it up.
In our case, I actually do that on the JavaScript side
and I put a little link to QR code
which is kind of one of the most widely used,
you know, npm packages for that purpose.
Display that to user, they scan it, they set it up,
they pair that first time, and then, you know,
takes a little getting used to for the user.
I think, you know, at the end of the day,
SMS a little more user-friendly,
just 'cause people are a little bit more familiar with it,
but this isn't a big leap.
So we went here instead of something like WebAuthn,
which is, you know, even probably better
from a security standpoint,
but I think a bigger leap for users.
So we just think it's a cool little library.
It's easy, it's purpose-built.
Literally those few lines of code that I put in the show notes,
it's almost everything that you would need
to implement this on the back end.
There really isn't anything else.
- It's amazing.
I've always avoided doing this
because I'm like, ah, it's probably kind of complicated.
I don't want to screw it up and unlock people out,
but it looks really simple and fantastic
and straightforward.
So yeah, this is a great suggestion for people.
- Yeah, cool.
- Brian, have you had to do any of this?
- No, but I do have like a SaaS app in the works
that I don't think I'll get that complicated.
'Cause I think for somebody like with GitHub,
we have to use it like something like that for GitHub now,
or you can, and I have set it up.
But some people, for some kind of apps,
it depends on your audience.
Some audiences aren't really gonna want that.
- Sure.
- Also depends on what you're protecting.
- Yeah, exactly.
of our clients are B2B large corporations all over the world.
And many of them already have these authenticator apps.
And the nice thing about this solution
is it works with any of them.
So you don't have to, as a business,
you don't have to direct your clients
to use a particular authenticator app.
So if you're using Microsoft or Google or Twilio's Authy
or any others, you can just plug this in and just use it.
We test and validate on those three,
but it'll likely work on any of them.
So it's really nice in that corporate environment just to slide in.
>> Yeah, and I should have emphasized for this audience,
one of the great things about this is SMS is not expensive,
but this is free.
It's free for you from a developer standpoint and it's free for your users.
These Authenticator apps are free downloads.
You're not imposing any friction on your users from that standpoint,
just a tiny bit of a learning curve for them.
But I think what you find, like you said,
GitHub, you can link an Authenticator app to GitHub if you want to add
MFA to your GitHub login, which I would say most of your listeners probably are familiar with.
And so if you're wondering about it, I'd encourage you, just try that. Download Google Authenticator
or Microsoft Authenticator, implement their MFA, you'll see what the experience is like. And you'll
probably find that not really probably a big hard sell with your clients. If in fact, MFA is
something you need, as you say, you don't need it, you don't need it. But if you do, you know you do.
and this is a solution I think people should consider because I think SMS
is fine and great but obviously the more widespread it becomes,
the more likely people are to attack it and the hacks on this are
not hard. My favorite one is using a cell signal booster which some
of you heard of, especially some of your listeners that don't live in urban
areas and whatever and I'm not encouraging this but if you
poke around just a little bit. It's not going to be very hard for you to figure out how to hack a
cell signal booster and people don't even know they're attached to it. And you can listen to
everything and record all their texts and all that. So, yeah, that's a nervous.
Brian's getting ideas.
I got to go guys. I love having this. I used Authy and I just checked my Authy has 45 different
accounts doing 2FA, MFA, which is fantastic. Yeah. I like Authy as well.
Brian, what else we got?
>> Well, I've got a few extras.
Do you have any extras?
>> You know I do. All right. Yeah, I'll do mine first.
So let's start with some real quick ones.
First of all, MacRumors points out that the machine learning framework,
PyTorch, traditionally these have been mainstream GPU,
these machine learning training frameworks,
and especially focused on NVIDIA,
which if you're on a Mac is a problem
because you don't have NVIDIA,
not even before the M1 stuff,
you had Radeon chips and stuff.
So doing hardware-based machine acceleration
was really tricky.
They are now supporting Metal on Apple,
which means you get GPU-accelerated training
on the new Apple Silicon Macs,
including the M1 Ultra and all that stuff.
So if people are on M1,
they may check that out, that sounds good.
Let's see.
Got a message from Harry.
This is a 15-year-old kid who said, hey,
I built this learning platform and a bunch of tutorials
with my cousin, Anna, who's 14.
And they built this app, which I'll link into,
called Mission Encodable.
And you come in, and you can do little tutorials.
And you've got little lessons and achievements
to do after and stuff.
So anyway, I just thought I'd give him a shout out,
because it's really cool that a 15- and 14-year-old put
this together for people.
Yeah, very cool.
Yeah.
All right.
Two real quick things as well.
I use Calendly.
Calendly, not misstating that.
That's how it's supposed to be.
Calendly.com, which is great for sharing your available free time.
People can sign up and book slots with you.
I recently learned about Cal.com, which is an open source parallel
or equivalent to Calendly.com.
So if you can self-host it, or you have a free version,
You can even have them host it for more pro things if you want.
But I just thought it was kind of cool.
There's an open source cal.com, which is Calendly.
And on the same vein, if you've heard about Firebase,
which is kind of like the back end platform for so many mobile apps
and stuff, so you don't have to have a website and an API
and a database and users, this would handle all of those things
for Firebase.
I also heard about Supabase, like super but without the R, Supabase,
which is the open source equivalent of that.
So you can have sort of like the backend cloud for free
for your, an open source for your mobile things,
if you care about that.
And yeah, so those are my,
oh, I have one more extra I wanna share with you.
So we've all heard about PyScript, right?
PyScript is awesome.
This comes from Anaconda.
It takes the CPython runtime and turns it into WebAssembly
and then runs it in your browser.
And I've been looking at the pyscript.net website
and they've got all sorts of cool stuff in there.
And if you go to pyscript/examples,
there's actually a bunch of examples.
You showed the one, you covered this last time,
I think it was last time or time before,
you covered the anti-gravity one
and those kinds of things, right?
What's lacking from here is anything that looks like
a regular application, right?
- Yeah.
- So I said, well--
the to do app. The to do app is not a regular you got to come on now. No, no, it's you're
right though. That is the absolute closest by far. But everything here says data science,
data science, I want Jupyter in the browser, but not with a server run it in the browser.
And that's fine. But that comes I think, far short of the potential. Okay. Yeah. So I this
This weekend I'm like, I'm going to fix this.
And the way I'm fixing it is with this project in a video that I was working on right before
we jumped on, I'll publish it later today, called the PyScript PWA Weather App.
So check this out.
See this thing here on the screen?
This is an application that installs in your dock offline.
It installs in your dock.
It's written in Python and PyScript and with Python on the front end and has no back end
and stuff locally, like Electron or something like that.
It's a progressive web app.
It downloads all the files, including
the 15 megabytes of the Pyodide runtime in PyScript,
puts it offline.
And when you run it, it just starts instantly.
So from a cold launch until you have this thing up and running,
it's about two seconds.
And it goes out and it talks to an API
and gets this cool weather here.
And you can have a little button.
press this refresh button, it goes pop, pop, pop, refresh.
As you click it, it's instantaneous,
the way it interacts with it.
And all of it is written on the front end using stuff
that you would recognize, stuff that looks like requests,
and JSON, and Python classes, and try, accept, and everything.
That's pretty cool.
It is.
Here, let me actually pull up a little bit of code
really quick just to show you all.
So check it out.
We've got our regular code.
Here's our Flask bit.
But if I go to Static, there's now
a Python folder in static.
And you can go to the weather API.
And let me make that bigger for the screen.
See this code right here?
It's download a report, type in, it goes to report.
It has this thing that comes back from calling this URL,
turns into JSON, does--
It's hardly any code.
That--
Nice.
That is running in the browser in the CPython runtime,
all of it locally with no download and no slow startup.
So anyway, I'm gonna do a video on that.
Yeah, what do you guys think?
Neat, huh?
- Yeah, PyScript is.
That's cool what you've done too.
PyScript's interesting to me.
I'm interested to see how that evolves.
I'm sure, like you said, I think most people are using it
maybe from a data science standpoint
or waiting for it to mature or whatever,
but there's some kind of odd analogs
between how React and some of those things got started here.
Obviously, angled at a different audience.
But I think there's some really cool things that
could be done with this as you evolve.
And interesting that you mentioned this on the show
today, because if you look in the repo for PyScript,
Tailwind is one of their core dependencies.
>> How nice.
How interesting.
Yeah, it's all coming together.
It's all coming together.
So I'll talk more about when I release the video later.
But I think that this, and the source code is out,
it's linking to GitHub,
people can check it out and install it.
It's really neat and I think it opens the door.
I can see people writing like a Vue.js wrapper,
so you create a Python class that sort of parallels Vue
or React or something like that,
and you could create really neat stuff
in this offline sort of progressive web app mode.
So we'll see.
All right, that's it for my extras.
- Okay, I've got a few.
The videos for PyCon US 2022 are up.
So yay, you can watch them now.
So I'll have a link to the show notes,
but you can also just look on YouTube
and search for PyCon US.
Yeah, so I'm looking forward to,
I've got a whole stack of ones I wanna watch.
I unfortunately didn't get a chance to make it this year.
So I'm looking forward to participating in this way.
Second thing I wanted to bring up is another podcast.
There's another Python podcast out there
called the Sad Python Girls Club.
So far they have two episodes.
The second episode, they interviewed Brett Cannon.
And it's good.
They're not actually sad.
The sad comes from that they used to be emo people
when they were young.
So I thought that was interesting.
So I listened to a lot of the same music.
- Nice.
All right, congrats to them for starting that.
That's cool.
- Yeah.
Third thing was, is I'm gonna do this publicly
to try to get me motivated to finish it,
the pytest course.
So yes, I've started work on a pytest course
and it will be through the talk Python,
Michael Kennedy thing, unless it's really terrible
then he probably won't want to think that.
(laughing)
- No, it'll be great, Brian.
I'm looking forward to it.
- Yeah, so, man, a couple of days ago,
I recorded like 20 minutes for the video with the mic off.
(laughing)
- I've done that or two mics on where there's a weird echo
it's offset by 20 milliseconds.
- But I'm looking forward to getting that out
because a lot of people have asked for it.
So that's in the works.
- Fantastic.
- I think that's cool, Brian.
You need to finish it.
We're all a little, none of us write enough tests.
We need more.
We could use the course.
- Cool.
That's all for me.
- Either you guys, yeah, you got anything else
you wanna give a shout out to before we wrap it up?
- I guess I better shout out.
Go ahead, Mark.
I said I better shout out
since you highlighted the cheerleaders earlier.
I'm pretty sure that was my daughter, Isabel,
and her friend Olivia and Jess listening.
So if they've hung with us this long
through Python podcast, then I better shout out to them.
Thanks.
(Mark laughs)
- Right on, that's cool.
- And I would just say,
in any sort of public company, complicated organizational structures like Tesla or Apple
or anything, we have some of them on our website on LexChart. And if you want others, just
drop us a line and we'll build them.
Nice. Yeah, that's pretty cool. All right. So we close out with the joke, Brian.
Yes.
I wanted to come up with something that I felt was a little bit associated with learning
to code and being somewhat beginner, even though what these guys built is not at all
but I know that they've been on that path recently.
So here we go.
So this one is an animated GIF
of a very frustrated person,
carry their computer out,
throwing it in the dumpster, the back.
It says programmers,
when they finally fix all their syntax errors in their code,
just to be confronted with a bug.
I don't know about you,
but I remember when I was learning C++,
I was so happy when I got my complicated code to compile.
And then I realized, no,
That's just the beginning of the hair pulling part.
- Yeah, it's Ron Swanson.
(all laughing)
Love that show.
- Yeah, yeah, absolutely.
All right.
- Thanks a lot.
- That's all I got, Brian.
- Excellent, that was fun.
- Thanks Ben and Mark for showing up
and thanks Michael as always.
It's been fun.
- Yeah.
- You bet.
- Bye everyone.
- Bye.
- Cheers.
[BLANK_AUDIO]